at least 50 people are said to have been
killed and many more injured in a blast
at the jabala refugee camp in Northern
Gaza well those figures come from the
hamran Gaza Health Ministry which also
says the camp came under Israeli fire we
yet to hear from the Israeli military
the BBC is still establishing the
details pictures from the scene as you
can see show people searching for
survivors and pulling bodies from the
rubble now Israel earlier said its
forces are striking Targets in all parts
of Gaza with Fierce battles being
reported with Hamas let me show you
these pictures from Israel's Defense
Forces showing their troops carrying out
ground operations the IDF says it is
encountered anti-tank missiles and
machine gun fire as they Advance into
Gaza the spokesman said it was hunting
commanders of Hamas and attacking
infrastructure meanwhile this video was
released by Hamas they say that the
people you can see surrounded by tanks
are in a firefight with Israeli soldiers
in Northern Gaza over the weekend the
Palestinian red crescent says the area
around the AL kuds Hospital in Gaza City
has again been under heavy bombardment
the health Ministry says more than 8 and
a half thousand people have been killed
in the past 3 weeks Israel says over
1,400 Israelis were killed in the Hamas
attacks on October the 7th well let's go
straight to our diplomatic C respondent
Paul Adams who's in Jerusalem and Paul
what more can you tell us about the
blast at the jabalia
camp well Matthew I think you've shown
some of the pictures they are pretty
shocking that crater is huge an
absolutely enormous hole surrounded by
vast quantities of rubble and then homes
and buildings around there that have
been obviously severely damaged either
in the course of this incident or
perhaps uh over over the course of the
last 3 weeks jabalia in case viewers are
wondering is the largest of the refugee
camps in the Gaza Strip home to around
115 120,000 people before uh this War
Began uh packed into an area of about 1
and A2 square kilometers it's not tents
it's it's buildings that have been there
for decades and tightly packed streets
and we think judging by the number of
people who are there looking in the
Rubble to try and find bodies and
survivors there are still hundreds maybe
thousands of people still in the area
despite days and days of Israeli
warnings for people to leave Northern
Gaza so it is likely that any air strike
on jabalia uh and this does appear to be
an air strike that kind of crater is
really only consistent with a large
munition dropped from the air then it is
almost inevitable that large numbers of
civilian Ians who have chosen uh to stay
in the north will have been caught up in
this that that figure of around 50 which
uh is the number counted by journalists
on the scene from aan France press that
appears to be a the minimum number of
people caught up in this obviously huge
explosion Paul you were mentioning some
of the geography of the Gaza Strip but
over the last week and more we've heard
from the Israelis urging people ordering
people to leave the north to go to the
south south of the W Gaza just tell us a
little more about where this Camp is
within that sort of geography north
south and this this line that the
Israelis have talked
about yeah so jabalia is north of Gaza
City so it's between Gaza City and uh
the the Border fence with Israel so it
is not far from the kind the areas where
Israeli forces have been pushing in on
the ground they're not there yet they
haven't reached those really densely
populated areas yet but they are
gradually pushing forward on a number of
areas in the north at the same time
we've seen the movement of Israeli
forces south of Gaza City closer to Wadi
Gaza uh in what looks like an attempt to
cut off Gaza City from the rest of the
Gaza Strip that would be entirely
consistent with the messaging that we've
been hearing from the Israelis really
since this War Began 3 weeks ago which
is to try and tell everybody to move
South of that line they the Israelis
feel that they are they have a lot that
they need to achieve in the ga the wider
Gaza City area that that is where many
Hamas Fighters will be located that is
where a lot of the uh bunkers and
tunnels that we've heard the Israelis
talking about a great deal in over the
past few weeks that's where all of that
is located
and so I think it is likely that as the
days go by more and more Focus will be
on this very very densely populated area
um what we don't know is how many people
civilians remain in in that area we do
know that there are thousands of people
Sheltering at shifa hospital where the
Israelis alleg that Hamas has bunkers
underneath we know of thousands of
people Sheltering at the aluts hospital
in another part of Gaza City and there
are un schools and medical facilities
dotted about this entire area where
people are still Sheltering so that it
is safe to assume that there are still
many many thousands of people who run
the risk of being trapped in Gaza at the
very moment when the Israelis turn their
attention to it on the
ground only this time yesterday or
around this time we heard Benjamin
Netanyahu absolutely adamant there would
been no ceasefire it's interesting just
in the last couple of hours the US
Secretary of State Anthony blinkin has
said humanitarian pauses must be
considered in Gaza at he was talking to
a senate hearing but even that even a
pause looks really unlikely at the
moment doesn't
it I think it does and and actually a
pause will not even affect Gaza City at
all the Israelis have made it clear that
nothing that goes into Gaza no Aid that
goes into Gaza will go north of that Wy
Gaza line that for the Israelis is
absolutely essential they're happy for
Aid to go in to the South uh to the area
where many many hundreds of thousands of
people have fled and are now Sheltering
some of them in tents but even there the
aid that is managing to get across the
border from Egypt is just a tiny
fraction of what is needed we've heard
American officials and Israeli officials
talking in the last couple of days about
increasing the number of trucks that go
across the border up to around 100 that
would be a start but we haven't got to
that point yet we haven't seen that
number of trucks going in on any single
day and even if they were to get in it
would be pretty challenging for the aid
agencies to address the needs of those
people who are huddled in the South
desperately in need of assistance but as
for the North and anyone north of w Gaza
they are on their own